Add SBOM guidelines (#20)
RedHatProductSecurity/security-data-guidelines: docs/sbom.md

different viewpoints of when an SBOM is created and what type of data it includes.

### Build vs Release

_Build-time_ SBOMs are created during the initial build process of an artifact (for example, when an RPM is created
from source files or a container image is built using [`buildah`](https://buildah.io/)). These SBOMs document the
components used during the build process to produce the final artifact as well as any components used for the build
process itself. This SBOM type also aligns with the _Build_ SBOM type from CISA's guidance on
[Types of SBOM Documents](https://www.cisa.gov/sites/default/files/2023-04/sbom-types-document-508c.pdf).

_Release-time_ SBOMs are generated when an artifact is released or published. These SBOMs build upon build-time
SBOMs by incorporating additional metadata, such as the repositories or locations where the artifact is
published, and associating it with the relevant product information if there is any. Release-time SBOMs reflect the
state of the software as it is distributed to end users. This SBOM type is close to the _Deployed_ type as defined
by CISA, but it reflects the state of the product that _would_ be installed by a given end user.

> Red Hat's publicly available SBOMs are of the "release" type, including details about where an artifact

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Red Hat's publicly available SBOMs are of the "release-time" type, including details about where an artifact
```

  [build/ubi9-micro-container-9.4-6.1716471860_amd64](https://github.com/RedHatProductSecurity/security-data-guidelines/blob/main/sbom/examples/container_image/build/ubi9-micro-container-9.4-6.1716471860_amd64.spdx.json)
- Release-time SBOM of the same `ubi9-micro` container image:
  [release/ubi9-micro-container-9.4-6.1716471860_amd64](https://github.com/RedHatProductSecurity/security-data-guidelines/blob/main/sbom/examples/container_image/release/ubi9-micro-container-9.4-6.1716471860_amd64.spdx.json)

The difference between these two SBOMs is relatively minor; the release-time SBOM contains information on where the
container image (identified by two distinct purls) itself is available from:

```diff
--- sbom/examples/container_image/build/ubi9-micro-container-9.4-6.1716471860_amd64.spdx.json
+++ sbom/examples/container_image/release/ubi9-micro-container-9.4-6.1716471860_amd64.spdx.json
@@ -22,12 +22,12 @@
         {
           "referenceCategory": "PACKAGE-MANAGER",
           "referenceType": "purl",
-          "referenceLocator": "pkg:oci/ubi-micro@sha256:1c8483e0fda0e990175eb9855a5f15e0910d2038dd397d9e2b357630f0321e6d?arch=amd64"

> +          "referenceLocator": "pkg:oci/ubi-micro@sha256%3A1c8483e0fda0e990175eb9855a5f15e0910d2038dd397d9e2b357630f0321e6d?arch=amd64&repository_url=registry.access.redhat.com/ubi9/ubi-micro&tag=9.4-6.1716471860"

Reviewer: Another interesting difference here is that `:` gets percent-encoded to `%3A`. Should we be doing that to start with, or we don't care?

Author: Yea, we should percent-encode as per spec: https://github.com/package-url/purl-spec/blob/master/PURL-SPECIFICATION.rst#rules-for-each-purl-component

- Product-level SBOM of the `openssl-3.0.7-18.el9_2` RPM package as included in RHEL 9.2 EUS repositories:
  [product/rhel-9.2-eus](https://github.com/RedHatProductSecurity/security-data-guidelines/blob/main/sbom/examples/product/rhel-9.2-eus.spdx.json)

Note that the root package described by the component-level SBOM, the OpenSSL Source RPM (SRPM), is the only
reference present in the product-level SBOM to not duplicate information between the two SBOMs. The purl
reference from the SRPM package can be used to discover the component-level SBOM from the product-level SBOM.

### Shallow vs Complete

_Shallow_ SBOMs describe only the current layer of components that were used to build a specific artifact. They 
focus on the immediate components without necessarily documenting their origins. The benefit of this approach is 
smaller SBOM files, and the ability to make incremental changes in select SBOMs while others remain unchanged when 
composing multiple SBOMs into a larger set (to describe a product, for example).

_Complete_ SBOMs provide a full, in-depth representation of all levels of the build process in a single file. A

> Complete SBOM includes all component layer, their dependencies, offering a complete view of a product's composition.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Complete SBOM includes all component layers and their dependencies, offering a complete view of a product's composition.
```
